- [Instructor] Okay, so let's first understand
what is the exact demo that we want to implement
for the filter use case.
This is our application.
When I log in and I enter the correct credentials
I reach the home page.
Now, when I log in, that's exactly when I'm able to see
all the history and view my profile links
because they are links that are very specific
to the user's login.
However, if I log out
and if I go on the landing page
do you see that I can access Home, History, Products,
People, Search, New User,
all of these even without a login.
Okay, so now, when I log in,
let me log in again,
and when I reach the home page,
I should completely restrict access
to order history and view my profile
in case anybody is trying to access it maliciously.
Let's say on from some other machine
or let's say the session itself
times out on this machine.
In both these cases, I have to go back to the login page
and ask the user to log in again.
So this is the functionality that I'm going to incorporate
in the filter class that we're going to write
as a part of our application.
We're going to restrict the access to the system
in case anybody tries to access these URLs maliciously
or the session is invalidated.
Okay?
So, let's look at the steps quickly.
We have a login request that's coming in
which will go to the servlet.
The servlet is going to do the validation of the credentials
against the database
so we will have to traverse to the DAO leer as well, okay?
And once this is done, then after,
on the click of those links, the filter
is going to do the authentication
and block the access to those certain servlet URLs
like, for example, order history or view my profile.
So this is only going to happen
if any malicious user accesses the URL
on a different machine
or let's say the session itself times out,
that's what we were talking about.
If you want to achieve this functionality in the filter
what you actually need to do
is somehow get access to that session object
and check if you have a valid username.
If you do get a valid username
it means it's the same session that is getting carried on
so it's fine to allow an entry to the next page.
If not, you can just stop the execution there
and go back to the login
asking the user to log in again.
Right?
So let's go ahead and now start implementing the steps.
The first of the steps is we have to add
the validation method in the DAO class.
So let's go to the eclipse.
This is my application DAO class,
I have a template of that method ready with me.
Public Boolean validate user takes in the username
and password as the parameters.
Right, so the first step will be getting the connection
to the database.
So I am on line number 76 and I am going to employ
the same mechanism of getting a connection
that we have been doing so far.
Done.
Now let's write select query,
so this is not going to be the insert query,
this is the select query,
and what am I going to do?
I'm going to query the user's table
and see if this username and password
do exist in the database table or not.
So I'm on line number 79
and I'm going to write the select query,
so let's say string,
that is string sql
equal to select star from users where
username equals a question mark
and password equals two questions marks.
That's the query.
And I'm going to pass these placeholders with parameters
through the prepare statement API.
So let's get the prepare statement object first,
prepare statement which is java sequel
and I'm going to get it on the connection object
by calling the prepared statement API.
To do this, I of course need to pass the sql queery
and after that I'll set the parameters,
I'm going to say statement dot set string parameter
index number one
and I'm going to take the username for this.
And the other parameter will be
parameter index number two, which is the password.
Okay, good.
Now let's go ahead and execute that query, right.
So I'm on line number 88,
what I'm going to do is I'm going to say is
statement dot execute query.
And this, of course, is going to return me results set.
I'm going to collect it into a result set reference.
Now, what I'm going to do on line number 89
is I'll just iterate this results set
and I will check whether I get a record or not.
If I get a record against this username
and password combination,
it means that the user is good,
it's a legal, valid user,
and I can take that user inside the system.
Okay, so let's go ahead and iterate that results set.
So I'm going to say while set dot next.
This search self is enough a check.
So let's put that while loop
and let's do one more thing.
I'll come at the top of this block
on line number 73 declare a Boolean variable,
let's say is valid user,
initially let us set it to false,
and if I do get a record
it means it's okay, it's a valid user,
so I'll take that Boolean
and set it to true.
Okay.
And at the end of the method what I only have to do is
just return that is valid user Boolean
back to the calling method.
That's all.
So we've taken the connection,
we have checked whether the username
and password exist in that table,
and if they do,
then I'm just going to signal that via that Boolean return.
Okay, let's go to the next step.
Now, we need to call that DAO method from the login servlet.
So whenever you click on the login button
we have to essentially call that DAO method
and check whether the user is valid.
So if you remember, for our URL rewriting demo,
we had actually set up the login servlet already
and we had collected the username,
we had set up the session,
we had set the attribute of username in the session,
and we had gone to home JSP
and there we have actually assumed
that this is going to be a successful login.
Now, however, for this demo,
we are going to attach that bit of logic
for the validation as well.
So you're on line number 32, you see this comment,
I'm going to call the DAO class for the validation logic.
So let's come down on line number 33,
let's make an instance of application DAO quickly,
and go ahead and call that validate user method.
But, of course, this method needs username
and password both.
So I have already collected the username before.
Let me also collect the password.
On line number 33 I am now going to collect the password
from the request parameters.
Okay.
And let's give a call there
and we know that this returns as a Boolean value.
Let's collect it in a Boolean variable.
Right.
Let me name it correctly, let's say is valid user.
Please do not forget to name your classes,
your methods correctly
according to all java naming conventions,
it's a very good practice to do that.
Okay, so now,
let's come inside, so we have called the DAO method
form LoginServlet, that's right,
and now we need to prepare an error message
for the invalid user
and set it in request, so let's do that.
What I'm going to do is here,
I'm going to check if the user is invalid,
so I can just check this variable.
So on line number 40, I'm going to put this condition,
if it is a valid user,
only then we are going to set up the session
and we are going to store the username inside the session.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to take the code
from lines number 44 to 48,
cut and paste it from line number 41.
That's right.
And then, if it's a valid user, of course,
you also need to go to home JSP
because it's a successful login.
So let me also take lines number 51, 52, cut them off,
and paste it on line number 46.
Okay.
So that's the case for the valid user.
However, if it's an invalid user,
then we need to put the else block.
So let's go in and do that.
What we're going to do is string error message,
let's set it to null initially,
otherwise you could do this,
you could just set the message yourself
because we're already in the else block,
so we say invalid credentials,
please login again,
requesting the user to login again.
And we'll set this error message in the request score
as an attribute.
So let's get hold of the request object
and call the set attribute API
and say error and pass on this error message to it.
Okay.
And the last step will be to take the user
back to login page
because their invalid credentials
will have to ask the user to login again.
So we do that using the request dispatcher API,
so I'm going to take that,
and fill the path of login dot jsp
and simply call the forward API with the request
and the response objects.
So there we are, we have the login servlet code
ready with us.
The rest of the things we'll look in the next video.